Create README.md for pallet-state-trie-migration (#7746)
paritytech/polkadot-sdk: substrate/frame/state-trie-migration/README.md

}
```

You also need to include the pallet in your `contruct_runtime!`, and `define_benchmarks!`. **Don't forget to update `type WeightInfo` once you have realistic weights**!

#### 2.1 Running the automatic migration.

To run the automatic migration, you need to use the `ControlOrigin` to set 1 storage value that determines how much resources should be used per block. Once you set this, the pallet will automatically migrate enough items `on_initialize` of all the following blocks, until all keys are migrated.

> `on_initialize` might go over the limits provided, because we can never know the real size of a key before reading it, at which point it is actually too late. Thus, it should NOT be used in a parachain.

> If you are sure you want to do the migration this way, you should set `SignedFilter` such that no account can call the manual signed migrations, just in case.

Let's look at `substrate-node --dev --execution Native -lruntime::state-trie-migration=debug` chain that includes this pallet. Initially, the logs don't show anything relevant.

Here is an example of a sudo transaction that kicks of the migration with a maximum of 8 items and 4kb of data per block:

> ![](https://i.imgur.com/uE6PBRu.png)

Reviewer: No imgur links. What happens when they are down?

The main benefit of this optimization is better PoV (proof of validity) size for parachains, since large values are moved out of the common trie paths.

The new trie has been included in the Polkadot client since release [v0.9.16](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot/releases/tag/v0.9.16). Although, the new trie format is not yet enabled. This is only done once `state_version` in `RuntimeVersion` is set to `1`. Once set to `1`, the trie works in a hybrid format, meaning that no migration is needed. Instead, migration is done lazily on the fly. Any storage key that's written to will be migrated if needed. This means that a part of all chain's state will be migrated to the new format pretty soon after setting `state_version` to `1`.

Nonetheless, it might take a long time for the entire chain's state to be migrated to the new format. The sooner this happens, the better, since the lazy migration is a small overhead. Moreover, this hybrid/lazy state mode does not support warp-sync and state import/export.

> To do this faster, we have developed [`pallet-state-trie-migration`](https://github.com/paritytech/substrate/blob/master/frame/state-trie-migration/src/lib.rs). This pallet is a configurable background task that starts reading and writing all keys in the storage based on some given schedule until they are all read, ergo migrated. This pallet can be deployed to a runtime to make sure all keys are read/written once, to ensure that all trie nodes are migrated to the new format.

Reviewer 2: The substrate link could be replaced with one into the SDK.

All Substrate-based chains are advised to switch their `state_version` to `1`, and use this pallet to migrate to the new trie format as soon as they can. Switching the `state_version` will enable the hybrid, lazy migration mode, and this pallet will speed up the migration process.

## pallet-state-trie-migration: How to Deploy

> First, please read the documentation of this pallet. Here, we recap the steps needed to use the migration pallet. To give a brief recap, we suggest:

Reviewer 2: Maybe link the pallet docs here instead of in the beginning of the file.

    // put it here to make sure only that account can trigger the signed migrations.
    type SignedFilter = EnsureSigned<Self::AccountId>;
    // Replace this with weight based on your runtime. 
    type WeightInfo = ();
}
```

You also need to include the pallet in your `contruct_runtime!`, and `define_benchmarks!`. **Don't forget to update `type WeightInfo` once you have realistic weights**!

### 2.1 Running the automatic migration

To run the automatic migration, you need to use the `ControlOrigin` to set 1 storage value that determines how much resources should be used per block. Once you set this, the pallet will automatically migrate enough items `on_initialize` of all the following blocks, until all keys are migrated.

> `on_initialize` might go over the limits provided, because we can never know the real size of a key before reading it, at which point it is actually too late. Thus, it should NOT be used in a parachain.
> If you are sure you want to do the migration this way, you should set `SignedFilter` such that no account can call the manual signed migrations, just in case.

> Let's look at `substrate-node --dev --execution Native -lruntime::state-trie-migration=debug` chain that includes this pallet. Initially, the logs don't show anything relevant.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Let's look at `staging-node-cli --dev --execution Native -lruntime::state-trie-migration=debug` chain that includes this pallet. Initially, the logs don't show anything relevant.
```

I think we have renamed this binary now, it is in `substrate/bin/node` for you to double check.

runtime::state-trie-migration: [41] 🤖 migrated 16 top keys, 0 child keys, and a total of 512 bytes.
```

And once the whole migration is done, the pallet will no longer do anything henceforth:

```bash
runtime::state-trie-migration: [53] 🤖 running migrations on top of MigrationTask { top: Last: ede8e4fdc3c8b556f0ce2f77fc2575e34e7b9012096b41c4eb3aaf947f6ea429, child: To start, dyn_top_items: 0, dyn_child_items: 0, dyn_size: 0, size: 1202966, top_items: 201, child_items: 0 } until MigrationLimits { size: 4096, item: 16 }
runtime::state-trie-migration: [53] 🤖 finished with MigrationTask { top: Complete, child: To start, dyn_top_items: 9, dyn_child_items: 0, dyn_size: 29, size: 1202995, top_items: 210, child_items: 0 }
runtime::state-trie-migration: [53] 🤖 migrated 9 top keys, 0 child keys, and a total of 29 bytes.
```

At this point, you should remove the pallet from the runtime, and you are done 🎉.

> The `MigrationTask` struct that is being printed in `debug` mode contains a lot of interesting information.
>

> See [the Rustdocs](https://github.com/paritytech/substrate/blob/77c15d2546276a865b6e8f1c5d4b1d0ec1961e72/frame/state-trie-migration/src/lib.rs#L143)

Reviewer 2: Also substrate link

These parameters should be parsed as follows:

> With each transaction, the bot is making a bet that migrating the next `item-limit` will not consume more `2 * size-limit` bytes of data.

It would be futile for the bot to actually submit transactions to find the answer to this bet, since it costs money. Therefore, the bot uses the unsafe `dryRun` RPC endpoint to make sure the above assumption is met.

If the `dryRun` fails, the bot will re-try with **halving the `item-limit`**. If `item-limit` reaches `0`, it means that the next key that needs to be migrated is larger than `2 * size-limit` and the bot needs to be re-executed with a larger `size-limit`. This could happen if for example the next key that needs to be migrated is e.g. the `:code:`.

> Also, note that your provided `size-limit` and `item-limit` should be less than the aforementioned `SignedMigrationMaxLimits`.

> With all of this, let's finally see an example. `substrate-node` is configured to allow any signed account to submit the signed migration, so we don't need to alter it.

Reviewer 2: Not sure if this still exists or works, but should be maybe replace with the polkadot or omni node binary.
